welcome to module 1 lesson 133
visibility review this is the eighth and
final step of the a part Google ads
audit checklist let's open up our audit
checklist and jump back into it all
right so we're in the final section here
which is around visibility in the last
section we talked about how to use Excel
to export and put things into a pivot
table so for all of these different
dimensions around uh the spread of
budget per performance by Campaign theme
or by region you can use those custom
columns to be able to put into a pivot
table and understand it uh same is true
for offer you would just go to the ad
level and then in the ad level you can
create um you can group all the final
uls together to find that out match type
you can easily find by going to your
keyword section and just doing an export
of your keyword report device you just
go to the device section in Google ads
you can export that uh weekdays same
thing just go to Google ads and you can
go to a day report and you can export
that as well so that's how you do all
the heavy lifting on the budget of
performance analysis for visibility this
is where we're going to talk more so
about uh impression share and quality
score so what is the search impression
share by our different campaign themes
so non-brand brand competitive rlsa
content so there's different ways you
can do it you can use Excel like how I
showed you or you could just go into
your account and uh you can filter by
campaign name assuming you have good
campaign naming conventions so for
example uh non
brand and then I can just see my
non-brand campaigns only let me actually
adjust this
and now I can only see my non brand
campaigns and if I have my impression
share metrics enabled which you should
if you have the the right column setup
uh I can come down here to the total for
these enabled View and I can see for
non-brand we have a 22% search
impression share 14% search loss to rank
63% search lost to budget so I can just
make a note of that so I can say you
know non-brand
lost to
rank is
14% And then LTB is
63% so what this means is for non-brand
we're getting 22% out of 100% visibility
so that means we're losing 80% of that
uh 14% of the time we're losing because
of the competitor cuz we have a low ad
Rank and then 63% of the time our ads
are not showing up because we just ran
out of budget so budget is a big deal
for this account so I'm going to
definitely take a note of that and I
would just do the same exact thing for
each theme so competitive rlsa and I
would figure out the spread of
visibility for each Campaign theme that
is applicable to this client's account
the next thing is uh the search loss to
rank so you would just exactly what we
just did search loss to rank search loss
to budget you drop those values here I
just did it all in one go just to show
you for the sake of time for this video
uh but you can drop them each here and
then uh what is your search top
impression share by Campaign theme so
this means how often are you in the top
three spots so you just have to make
sure you have this column enabled and
then you can see uh it's 20% overall for
non brand so for
non-brand we've got
a 20% search top impression share
meaning only 20% of the time we're
actually in the top three spots so big
opportunity here for them okay now let's
talk about quality score I'm going to
show you how to do a quality score
analysis I actually learned this from
Brad gettis years ago uh the OG of
Google ads and uh the way you do this is
you go to the keyword section of your
client's Google ad account or your
Google ad account and you want to make
sure you have the right columns enabled
so we need to make sure we have quality
score add relevance expect to click the
rate and landing page experience enabled
and then you're going to download this
and you're going to put it into an CSV
and we're going to put into a pivot
table so that number of quality score
whether you're a 1 through a 10 what
determines it is your ad relevance your
expected click rate and your landing
page experience so we want to figure out
which one is hurting us so let's go
ahead and format this report really
fast all right and I'm going to put this
into a pivot
table so we're going to drop our
keywords as values and we're we're going
to put quality score as our row and I'm
going to zoom in
here so this is our quality
score and uh just go ahead and hide any
blanks these are keywords that don't
have a quality score assigned to them
yet and we're going to put a percentage
and let's figure out what
is the total that we're dealing with
here all right
so ideally 70% of our keywords have a
seven plus in this case none of our
keywords are above five uh means quality
score is a huge opportunity for this
client so in this case uh 45% of their
keywords have a score of three 33% have
a score of two 18% of a score of one so
quality score is a big deal for this
account they're really suffering from a
quality score perspective so I'm going
to take a note of this and um I'm going
to come back here into our sheet and and
in this case we
have 100% of
keywords less than
seven and specifically
45% with three so just taking a note so
now what aspects of quality score do we
need to improve is it our ad relevance
is our landing page experience our
expected clickr rate so the beautiful
thing about what we do is we can
understand through analyzing the data so
I'm going to go here now and analyze my
landing page experience
and let's take a look and see so let's
update our
formula so we'll do
E6 and okay so 94% of our keywords and
this is landing page experience just so
you can follow along with
me so 94% of our keywords have a below
average landing page experience that's
pretty bad that means we've got to do
some serious work on the landing pages
so I'm going to make a note of that 90%
low LP experience and now we're going to
do the same thing for the other
variables within the quality score
formula add
relevance and let's see how we're doing
here let's make sure our formula is
correct okay this is much better 45% of
our keywords have above average ad
relevance that's awesome so uh I know if
a client did a good job structuring
their ad groups again based on their ad
relevance cuz the ad groups how many
keywords you put in there Etc it's all
comes down to ad relevance and then
mapping it to a congruent landing page
so you have that message match so in
this case they can improve their ad
relevance like we had a couple keywords
that were not the best but it's not the
number one thing hurting them so I'm
going to take note 45% above
average add relevance and then last but
not least is the expected click the rate
so let's take a
look and uh I don't even need to do the
formula here it's 100% below average
expect to click to eight so let's go
ahead and just make a note of
that and that's it that's how you do a
quality score analysis so we know
quality score is a massive opportunity
for this client your action item for
this lesson is to review your visibility
and Mark each completed step within the
checklist template I hope you received a
of value so far please share ad
conversion with your colleagues or leave
us a testimonial we appreciate your help
spreading the word see you in the next
one
[Music]